# Git and Github

### Today I learned about the basics of Github, how to implement it, how it can be very beneficial when it comes to projects, and the history of git and github. From creating repositories, switching their visibility, up to project managing (monitoring the project progress) and collaboration, I can see that using Github can be very effective when it comes to projects wether it's a personal or a group project. I was amazed when I discovered that Git was actually invented by Linus Torvalds because back then I only knew that Linus was the one who invented linux operating system (although not historically, just some knowledge because of community). 

One thing I also realized is that, when you are a developer, maybe it is a really big help for you to learn what and how to use github since as I've mentioned earlier, it can be used not just for project monitoring but also for secured codebase/project storage. Like for example, during our last semester one of the group in our class don't know how to use github so they only use gmail/google drive for storing their project and unexpectedly, their machine suddenly overheated and in just a second, all of their project progress lost and they never recovered it even they tried to. 

So, yeah, Github is a very big help for projects wether it's just a personal or working on a team. Additionally, Github also allows us to monitor the progress of the project, revert changes and recover whenever something is broken in the current codebase using version control system. We can also see who contributed if we are working on a team, just for transparency and accountability (for code errors committed).
